Add "Deno in 2020" blog post (#1640)
denoland/deno_website2: public/posts/deno_in_2020.md

- [0.40.0](https://github.com/denoland/deno/releases/tag/v0.40.0)
- [0.41.0](https://github.com/denoland/deno/releases/tag/v0.41.0)
- [0.42.0](https://github.com/denoland/deno/releases/tag/v0.42.0)

### May: Deno 1.0 released

Beginning of the month marked removal of various features:

- JSON imports
- WASM imports
- `window.location` API
- Rust API for `deno` crate

The reason for that was we didn't want to commit to supporting those APIs in the
current form either because of lacking underlying specification (JSON/WASM
imports, import assertion are now at Stage 3 and we plan to bring back those
imports into Deno soon) or would place additional maintenance burden (Rust API
for `deno` crate).

Finally on May 13, exactly two years after
[Ryan's original Deno presentation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M3BM9TB-8yA),
we cut the 1.0.

On social media, the release was very well received. Our
[blog post](https://deno.land/v1) was shared widely, we gained many new users
and contributors.

But the dust had barely settled before we were back to work on another major
component of the runtime: the dependency analysis in TypeScript host was

> rewritten using [SWC](https://swc.rs/). This changed marked the beginning of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
rewritten using [SWC](https://swc.rs/). This change marked the beginning of
```

project.

**Releases that month:**

- [1.2.3](https://github.com/denoland/deno/releases/tag/v1.2.3)
- [1.3.0](https://github.com/denoland/deno/releases/tag/v1.3.0)
- [1.3.1](https://github.com/denoland/deno/releases/tag/v1.3.1)
- [1.3.2](https://github.com/denoland/deno/releases/tag/v1.3.2)

### September: WebSocket API, CSS styling in console, file watcher, test coverage

This month we shipped our biggest feature release since 1.0. More details in
[the 1.4.0 blog post](https://deno.land/posts/v1.4).

There was another important change on the maintenance part of the project. The
release schedule was changed, from monthly minor release, to shipping new minor
release every six weeks, matching the Rust and Chrome projects.

**Releases that month:**

- [1.3.3](https://github.com/denoland/deno/releases/tag/v1.3.3)
- [1.4.0](https://github.com/denoland/deno/releases/tag/v1.4.0)
- [1.4.1](https://github.com/denoland/deno/releases/tag/v1.4.1)
- [1.4.2](https://github.com/denoland/deno/releases/tag/v1.4.2)

### October: REPL revamp, improved bundling, isolatedModules by default

[1.5.0 blog post](https://deno.land/posts/v1.5)

> The biggest changed that happened in this month was enabling `isolateModules`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The biggest change that happened in this month was enabling `isolatedModules`
```

This month was spent on reviewing APIs in `Deno` global which lead to breaking
changes in many APIs. We leaned on the "safe" side so any API that didn’t "feel"
right at that moment was made unstable or completely removed.

This was the major commitment for 1.0 release; `Deno` APIs marked as stable
won’t have breaking changes until 2.0 release.

This month marked the last 0.x.y release of Deno.

**Releases that month:**

- [0.39.0](https://github.com/denoland/deno/releases/tag/v0.39.0)
- [0.40.0](https://github.com/denoland/deno/releases/tag/v0.40.0)
- [0.41.0](https://github.com/denoland/deno/releases/tag/v0.41.0)
- [0.42.0](https://github.com/denoland/deno/releases/tag/v0.42.0)

### May: Deno 1.0 released

Beginning of the month marked removal of various features:

- JSON imports
- WASM imports
- `window.location` API
- Rust API for `deno` crate

The reason for that was we didn't want to commit to supporting those APIs in the
current form either because of lacking underlying specification (JSON/WASM
imports, import assertion are now at Stage 3 and we plan to bring back those
imports into Deno soon) or would place additional maintenance burden (Rust API
for `deno` crate).

> And then May, 13th came. We prepared the release as always. Reviewd, merged,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And then May, 13th came. We prepared the release as always. Reviewed, merged,
```

### August: New registry released

Original post: https://deno.land/posts/registry2

August 3, we released a new registry that uses webhooks. you can probably copy
some text from

First steps towards "op crates" were taken and `deno_web` was born. The whole
idea of op crates is to modularize parts of the Deno runtime into separate Rust
crates. This approach allows to build custom runtimes based on Deno code, but
using only those APIs that are of interest.

This month the benchmark system was rewritten in Rust; which marked the start of
tedious efforts of reducing the number of build dependencies for the Deno
project. Deno depended on Python 2, node.js...

**Releases that month:**

- [1.2.3](https://github.com/denoland/deno/releases/tag/v1.2.3)
- [1.3.0](https://github.com/denoland/deno/releases/tag/v1.3.0)
- [1.3.1](https://github.com/denoland/deno/releases/tag/v1.3.1)
- [1.3.2](https://github.com/denoland/deno/releases/tag/v1.3.2)

### September: WebSocket API, CSS styling in console, file watcher, test coverage

This month we shipped our biggest feature release to date, with detailed
description in 1.4.0 blog post: https://deno.land/posts/v1.4

> There was another imporant change on the maintaince part of the project. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There was another important change in the maintenance part of the project. The
```

release schedule was changed, from monthly minor release, to shipping new minor
release every six weeks, similarly to Rust or Chrome projects.

**Releases that month:**

- [1.3.3](https://github.com/denoland/deno/releases/tag/v1.3.3)
- [1.4.0](https://github.com/denoland/deno/releases/tag/v1.4.0)
- [1.4.1](https://github.com/denoland/deno/releases/tag/v1.4.1)
- [1.4.2](https://github.com/denoland/deno/releases/tag/v1.4.2)

### October: REPL revamp, improved(\*) bundling, isolatedModules by default

Not really, everything broke, but oh well

1.5.0 blog post: https://deno.land/posts/v1.5

> The biggest changed that happened in this months was enabling `isolateModules`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The biggest change that happened in this month was enabling `isolateModules`
```

> option in TypeScript compiler host by default. This settings changes the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
option in TypeScript compiler host by default. This setting changes the
```

behavior of TypeScript in such a way that ensures that each file can be
transpiled in isolation (without knowledge of types and/or other modules) by
tools other than TypeScript, eg. `babel`, `swc`. This change had a significant
impact on the module ecosystem, making some popular modules unusable until
maintainers adjusted the code to work with `isolatedModules`. We still firmly

> believe that it way the right step to take to ensure a certain "Deno" flavor of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
believe that it is the right step to ensure a certain "Deno" flavor of
```

resulted in even more work being done in Rust instead of JavaScript.

`deno_crypto` op crate

Simplify tooling in the repo

**Releases that month:** 1.5.2, 1.5.3, 1.5.4

### December: Self-contained binaries and LSP

1.6.0 blog post: https://deno.land/posts/v1.6

In December we released version 1.6 containing two milestone features:
self-contained binaries and the language server. `deno compile` was single most
requested feature in Deno’s bug tracker.

Providing built-in language server allows to provide great development
experience to all editors that can talk LSP protocol. It leads to third revamp
of vscode_code that is still work-in-progress.

TypeScript 4.1 (add to previous months when TS was bumped) Canary builds
Deno_runtime crate - build your own deno

**Releases that month:**

- [1.6.0](https://github.com/denoland/deno/releases/tag/v1.6.0)
- [1.6.1](https://github.com/denoland/deno/releases/tag/v1.6.1)
- [1.6.2](https://github.com/denoland/deno/releases/tag/v1.6.2)
- [1.6.3](https://github.com/denoland/deno/releases/tag/v1.6.3)

### 2021

We've seen a lot of growth in the project and community in 2020 and going into
2021 we feel strongly about momentum behind Deno.

> Stay tuned for some exciting annoucements coming soon!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stay tuned for some exciting announcements coming soon!
```
